 
# [FIDL Tuning Proposal](README.md) 009  [FIDL调整建议]（README.md）009 

What's up, Doc?  这是怎么回事DOC？

Field     | Value ----------|--------------------------Status    | AcceptedAuthors   | kulakowski@google.comSubmitted | 2018-07-31Reviewed  | 2018-08-20 领域值---------- | --------------------------状态|接受作者|提交| kulakowski@google.com | 2018-07-31评论| 2018-08-20

[TOC]  [目录]

 
## Summary  摘要 

Documenting FIDL.  记录FIDL。

 
## Motivation  动机 

Not only is good documentation an important part of scaling a team, documenting our APIs is an important part of defining a stable API. The Fuchsia API is primarily implemented in FIDL and a large amount of documentation is being left in comments that is hard to surface. Even worse, it is not uncommon for people to look at generated bindings to figure out how to use an interface. This proposal is the first step of a comprehensive documentation strategy for the FIDL language and it’s interfaces.  好的文档不仅是扩展团队的重要组成部分，而且文档化我们的API也是定义稳定的API的重要部分。紫红色的API主要是在FIDL中实现的，并且大量文档留下了难以理解的注释。更糟糕的是，人们通常会查看生成的绑定以弄清楚如何使用接口。该建议是FIDL语言及其界面全面文档策略的第一步。

 
## Design  设计 

There are two proposed FIDL source language changes. A standard `Doc` attribute and syntactic sugar to improve the ergonomics of writing documentation.  提议了两种FIDL源语言更改。标准的Doc属性和语法糖，可提高编写文档的人体工程学。

 

 
### Doc Attribute  文件属性Arbitrary attributes are an already supported component of the FIDL language. Standardizing on the `Doc` attribute is for the tooling that generates the formated documentation. Using an attribute as the basis of the documentation tooling also allows for additional options to be added to the formatted output without breaking changes.  任意属性是FIDL语言已经支持的组件。 Doc属性的标准化是用于生成格式化文档的工具。使用属性作为文档工具的基础，还可以在不中断更改的情况下将其他选项添加到格式化的输出中。

 

```FIDL
[Discoverable, Doc = "Primary Bluetooth control service to access bluetooth"]
interface Control {
  ...
  [Doc = "Sets the public Bluetooth |name| for this device"]
  10: SetName(string? name) -> (fuchsia.bluetooth.Status status);
}
```
 

Currently, there can be only one `Doc` attribute per language element. This makes it so all text must be put into the Attribute braces, which could lead to excessively long lines.  目前，每个语言元素只能有一个“ Doc”属性。因此，必须将所有文本都放在“属性”括号中，这可能会导致行过长。

 

 
### Syntactic Sugar  句法糖 

To address the poor ergonomics of using attributes, a layer of syntactic sugar is proposed.  为了解决使用属性的不良人体工程学问题，提出了一层语法糖。

This involves a small change to the FIDL language specification. Comments are currently ignored during the lexing of FIDL. This FTP does not address adding general comments to the AST, only documentation comments.  这涉及到FIDL语言规范的微小更改。在FIDL的词法处理过程中，当前忽略注释。该FTP不解决将常规注释添加到AST的问题，仅解决文档注释的问题。

 

Attributes are the primary way that the FIDL language expresses the idea of metadata attached to structures. Having documentation comments as just a special case of this simplifies the consumption of the metadata in the IR.  属性是FIDL语言表达附加到结构的元数据概念的主要方式。将文档注释作为这种情况的特例，可以简化IR中元数据的使用。

 

The suggested modification of the grammar is in the appendix of the FTP, but mostly involves adding an additional rule and minor rule re-ordering.  建议对语法进行的修改在FTP的附录中，但主要涉及添加其他规则和次要规则的重新排序。

``` documentation-comment = "///", STRING-LITERAL, "\n" ```

```
interface Control { /// Sent when an adapter with the given |identifier| has been/// removed from the system.10102: -> OnAdapterRemoved(string identifier);} interface Control {///当带有给定| identifier |的适配器时发送已从系统中删除// 10102：-> OnAdapterRemoved（string identifier）;}

```

This would de-sugar to:

```
```

### Documentation comment contents
Doc comments are primarily freeform text. Any specific style of formatting is up to the author, team, or future style guides. The only primitive added is an identifier marker, currently proposed as pipes (|) encasing the local identifier. Unqualified identifiers are scoped to the members beneath the object that the attribute is attached too. A fully qualified identifier can be used (Ex: |fuchsia.bluetooth.ErrorCode|) to refer to objects outside of the current scope.


Eventually, fidldoc documentation generation should fail if any of the identifiers are missing, but the attribute will still be included and passed into language bindings. This will prevent documentation rot. Adding the identifiers to the IR or as part of the parsing step is intentionally avoided due to complicating these steps. Extracting the identifiers belongs in the documentation tooling (fidldoc). Documentation generation should be added as a mandatory part of a standard debug build and the overall build should fail if the documentation is not successfully generated.


### Additional tooling
A standard tool, called fidldoc, should be added to the tools directory. Fidldoc will generate markdown after consuming the FIDL JSON IR.
Markdown is the current format that we are using with the other first-class language’s documentation tooling.


### Other
The Wire format is unaffected by these changes. How language bindings chose to surface docstrings, or if they surface them, is left as an implementation detail for their respective communities or potentially as additional FTPs.

The style guide should be amended to prefer `///` over the doc attribute, but otherwise is left alone.


## Documentation and Examples
Triple comments are a relatively common way of  denoting documentation comments and should not be a large barrier to understanding the fidl language.
Example using triple comments should be added to the existing documentation as well as an explanation of how to use the attribute annotations.

The primary way that people will consume this feature is in the generated output.


Backwards Compatibility
This feature is already backwards compatible with all recent prior fidlc compilers. While the new functionality will not exist for the triple comment syntactic sugar, they do not break earlier compilers.

Document attribute comments will work without any language changes.

## Performance
No performance changes are expected except for a small increase in the JSON IR size. We will also generate documentation at compile time which will slow down the build a small amount.

## Security

n/a

## Testing

n/a

## Drawbacks, Alternatives, and Unknowns

General agreement of the approach and the specific syntax used are required for adoption. The syntax is easily modified (and bikeshedded) and does alter the core ideas of the proposal.

Potential alternatives with regards to fidldoc is that the compiler generates the documentation itself. It may also be worth using the existing backend generator approach for this. Output format of the generated documentation may also be up for discussion.

Another alternative is to represent the documentation comments as first-class citizens in the AST. While there aren’t any real drawbacks to this strategy, you lose some of the extensibility benefits of modeling it as an attribute. Someday we may want to add additional information for our documentation tooling and the attribute style makes this possible without breaking changes. For example, we may want to allow specifying the markdown language of the comment. This would then keep all of the information for generating the documentation within the same output (the attributes). It also enforces a nice regularity where the doc comments and attributes, which have similar placement constraints, are parsed in the same way.

## Prior Art and References
Most languages have documentation tooling. This draws from prior art of dartdoc, rustdoc, and javadoc (mostly in what not to do)
